For those of you who haven't maybe seen Express before,
I'm just going to do a very brief demo of some of the key things that you'll
want to accomplish when you're building an Express application.
So,
I'm just going to do one from scratch to kind of demonstrate how Express works.
And here in this directory I've actually already downloaded the Express
module so I can write Node program that's going to using it.
So, I'm going to create a new file, index.
js, which is going to be our simple Express application,
and I'm going to open that up,
and in my text editor here I'm going to be able to require the Express module.
And I'm going to repeat some things that if you've been doing
Node for a while you probably already know,
so I apologize for that,
but there are lots of folks in the room and online who
some of this stuff might be new.
So I'll break it down as best as I can,
and feel free to shoot in any questions that you have along the way.
So the first thing I'm going to do is require Express as a CommonJS module.
And the way that --- and this is the modularization
mechanism provided natively in Node.
js.
And if we could in the text editor too, if we can bump some _____.
Sure thing.
I could probably go a little bit bigger.
Thank you.
Alright, so there is a global function in a Node program called require,
and when I pass in the name, it's going to try to find a module of that name.
So if it's just a string like this, like express,
it's going to reference the Node module path,
and the way that that is resolved is in a couple of ways.
First locally, here in this directory, if there is a node_modules folder,
it's going to look in here and say like,
oh, there's something called express in this node_modules folder,
so I'm going to load that module from there.
And after that, if it doesn't find express in a local node_modules folder,
it'll actually start walking up the folders up above
that looking for Node modules, and failing that,
it will look for globally installed Node modules.
So if you installed Express globally, it will require that version of the module.
If you want to require local modules that you've created,
which will do here in a second, there's a slightly different syntax for that.
But now I've created this express object, which represents the Express library.
And I'm going to create an application just using the express constructor,
or express builder, I would say.
It's not really a constructor function.
And with that application,
I can start defining routes to handle incoming HTTP requests,
or I can start configuring middleware.
But before I do that,
the express module does have the capacity to start like a built-in HTTP server,
which we'll do on port 3000.
So that'll actually start listening for requests.
Typically you don't use the built-in HTTP server like this,
but for demonstration purposes we'll do that.
And there's a couple ways where I can define handlers in my application.
And app.
use is a way that I can define a middleware function for my application.
So use expects a function as an argument,
and a middleware function will have arity of three,
so it'll take three arguments, which is going to be the request,
the response, and next.
And next is a callback function that is going to be
called to continue on processing the request after the
middleware has finished executing.
So in this case,
a common use case for a middleware is to like check for an
authenticated user and then add that user's information to the
current request for downstream processing.
So I could say request.
user = name Kevin or something like that.
Maybe I would check the cookies associated with the
request and get some data there,
but I would do some processing on the request and/or the response,
and then whenever I'm done executing that logic,
I'll just call next, and then the request will continue processing.
And then when I want to handle specific --- uh yes, question.
Is there a meaningful difference between declaring your
app variable using a let versus a var?
The difference with let is block scope.
It's essentially the scope in which the variable is declared.
So with var,
the scope is always going to be like whatever the
enclosing meaning of this would be.
So like if this code were to execute in the browser outside of a function scope,
if I did var app, that would declare the app variable globally.
Let declares variables within the scope of a block.
So in this case, this method is visible to my entire application,
but if it was declared within an if block or some other
kind of block within the application,
it would be only scoped --- it would only be visible within that block.
So you can basically use it in place of var,
and it usually means what you want it to mean,
which is declare this variable inside the current block scope.
So,
and the const is for variables that you do not ---
that you don't expect to change.
They should be immutable, essentially.
So, we create the application, we define some middleware,
and then we can handle specific HTTP methods on the application as well.
So when a browser makes a request to our web application,
that's an HTTP get request.
So on our application object, I can say get.
Whenever there's a get request to /hello in my web application,
I want to execute some logic.
And in this case,
I'm just going to create a callback function with a request and response.
Technically, I don't even need these other parens,
but it's a hard habit to break, and I'm probably not ever going to use it,
never going to break it I don't think.
But at this point, I'm probably going to render an actual response to this route.
So, now I'm going to say response.
send, and by --- and response.
send will send back different content types depending on
the kind of object that you pass it.
If you pass it a string,
it will assume that you're trying to send HTML back to the client.
If you pass it a JavaScript object,
it'll serialize it to JSON and assume you want to send JSON back to the client.
So in this case, I'm going to send back a string that says Hello request.
user.
name,
and it's going to use that value which was defined in the
middleware to actually insert that name into the HTML
response that I'm sending back.
And this is another newish feature that I won't beat in,
but it's possible to do string interpolation in this version of Node
using the backticks rather than the single ticks.
So, it's just one of those niceties that is snuck into the language recently.
So if I save that up and run the program --- No.
Oh yeah, I'm actually already running something on port 3000.
That would be why.
Okay, so now I have a little Express application running on port 3000,
and if I visit hello in the browser, I see Hello Kevin,
which is based on the result of that middleware stack that I defined.
Now,
the way --- and typically if you as an application
developer are creating your own middleware,
you don't probably want to define middleware in this way.
Most of the middleware that you see that you'll use from npm or elsewhere in
the ecosystem will actually define a constructor function,
which returns a function that you can use as middleware.
So in this case,
I'll just demonstrate that technique really quickly by creating a new file.
We'll call it middleware.
js.
And the --- and in this case,
I'm going create a function that's going to accept some arguments and
then produce a middleware function as a response.
So, I'm going to do a function called create,
and it'll accept an argument like a username.
And this create function is itself going to return a function,
which will be the actual middleware that we --- that's actually not necessary.
So,
this will be the actual middleware function that you
can mount in your application.
So, if we copy over kind of what we did here, we get request.
user.
name.
So we put that processing logic inside of this middleware function,
excuse me, just do that,
but now instead of like hard coding the name that we send back,
we'll just pass in the username that was configured here.
And in this way,
you can essentially parameterize the creation of your
middleware so you can have middleware behave differently
based on the arguments that are passed in.
So typically, this is how you're going to want to construct some middleware.
And then to actually make that create function the
public interface to my module,
I will assign that function that I just created to module.
exports.
So now I can require my own middleware by passing in a relative
path to the module that I'd like to require.
So, in this case, it's going to be in the same directory,
and it was called middleware.
So, I'm going to require that middleware function,
and now, rather than having the function in line there,
I'm going to say --- I'm going to change up my
middleware to pass in a different name.
And now, if I kill that process and restart it,
go back out to my server,
I have a parameterized middleware that does something slightly different.
So again, if you're developing your own middleware,
that's typically the way that you're going to structure it with a
factory function that will create --- that will in fact return a
function based on the parameters that you pass in.
Alright,
any questions on Express or middleware right away before we
keep trucking or things that you'd like further information on before we try it ourselves?